I'm Steve Castile.
I'm the pastor emeritus here, the seasoned pastor emeritus.
You know, Kelly kind of looked at me when she said that I felt those eyes.
Today, we are continuing our series on salt and light.
And we're talking about the elements that truly make us the church that make us the body of Christ in this world.
And so,
On this day after Valentine's, I have to share kind of a personal aside.
Some of you who have known us for a while know that this is not for us Valentine's week.
This is heart week.
On the 10th of February in 2006, I had quadruple bypass surgery.
I came home on Valentine's Day, which was nice, but Cindy was in the other end of the house with the flu.
And so it was an interesting week.
But today is a critical day in my life.
On the day after Valentine's in Toronto, I met Cindy.
It was the first time we met.
And so Heart Week is made up of, this will be 20 years of survival since my quadruple bypass.
And then Valentine's Day, and then the day I met my wife.
That's pretty cool.
That's why I wear my Tabesco Heart Time today.
It just kind of reminds me that we're in hard week.
Church, I loved Kelly.
The Holy Spirit is a cool thing when she shared with you this kind of symbol of that.
And we're going to allude to that later.
But as a preacher, you always worry about what people think about church.
You always worry that people have the wrong idea about church.
and in our culture that's very easy because sometimes church becomes more of a social club, a place where you go because people go there.
And in that line I'm reminded of an old preacher's joke that this man kept going to this church and he was a homeless guy and he stank and he had long hair and he was just kind of in the eyes of most normal people pretty repulsive but he wouldn't
go there and the ushers would meet him and say, no, you can't go to church here.
You're just, you know, you're too dirty.
We don't know you.
Just know one.
And he had tried one more time and he was sitting on the steps of the church, just kind of sad and rejected.
And Jesus walked up and Jesus says, Hey man, what's going on?
He said, well, I keep trying to go in this church and they keep telling me that I can't go there because I'm not their kind of people.
Jesus sat down beside him and patted his knee and said, listen, man, don't be upset.
I've been trying to get in this church for decades, which brings me back to the whole idea of so, so what is church?
What is the kingdom of God?
And the question that when I titled my sermon, the question that came was, well, where does God go to church?
Where does God go to church?
So many times when we say that word, we think about a building and you think about, you know, putting your hands together and doing that.
Let's, let's do it again.
Uh, we're going to rehearse it at fingers interlaced with the fingers on the inside.
So here's the church.
Here's the steeple.
Open it up and here's the people.
Well, I'm going to tell you a second verse to that.
which I made up myself.
You're going to redo it, put your hands just like this, and you go like this.
Here's the church.
It is the people.
Every once in a while they meet under the steeple.
Try that again.
Here's the church.
It is the people.
Every once in a while they meet under the steeple.
how we look at church really determines how we live out our faith.
One of the joys I get in life is I used to be on TV with the Methodist Tower.
And after COVID, there were so many people preaching, I was like, nobody needs another sermon.
So we started a podcast called The Difference.
And it's a storytelling piece about people in arts and social services that are different than the world.
And they bring
change just because of their work or their art or their life.
And one of the people that I got to do a podcast with was Walter Anderson's son.
Do you all know Walter Anderson?
Great artist from the coast.
His son John has become a friend of ours and Anthony Thakston, who's the producer of our podcast.
And so we ask him if he do a podcast with us and talk about
his dad if you know the story Walter Anderson he was different and a lot of people thought he was crazy but a lot of people didn't know and one of the things Anthony did a documentary on Walter and John discovered some things he didn't know about his dad and so he went on a journey to learn more about his father that maybe he wasn't exactly the man he thought
And in the midst of him excavating some of his writings and revisiting some of the things he said, he said, I came back across a saying that he had shared with me when we were in a conversation.
And it was a conversation about why he was different and why he saw things differently and why he kind of articulated that in a different way.
And he said, John, here's, here's what happens.
People have a perspective, just like an artist does.
And he said, there's really kind of two perspectives.
Those of you that don't know about Walter Anderson need to know that much of his life he spent out on Horn Island, living in nature, canoeing back and forth, boating back and forth, but mostly on the island.
And he said, most people look at the world through
a sure dominant perspective.
I look at the world from an island dominant perspective.
Church invites us not to look at the world in a world dominant perspective, but to look at the world in a kingdom dominant perspective.
It makes us different.
It reshapes how we see things, how we think about things.
When we pray the Lord's prayer, what do we pray?
Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done.
To be the church means to allow God as what's so beautifully shared by one of the kids and to live in us.
church begins, as Jesus said to Peter, on you will I build my church.
The church is a living, breathing, incredible organism that finds its life when we find our life in Christ.
The scripture that we've put as the centerpiece is in Hebrews and it's
kind of the writer's challenge to the people that Paul's beginning to disciple, the church that's beginning to emerge.
So let's listen to these words.
Therefore my friends, since we have confidence to enter the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain that is through his flesh.
And since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Let us approach with true heart in full assurance of faith.
With our hearts sprinkled cleanse from an evil conscience and our body washed with a pure water.
Let us hold fast to the confessions of our hope without wavering, for he who has promised is faithful.
And let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good
deeds, not neglecting meeting together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day approaching.
The writer of Hebrews begins that passage by talking about the place where the people of God had worshiped the temple.
And in the temple there were circles, circles of access,
You could stand in the court of the Gentiles if you were not a part of the Jewish faith, but you couldn't go beyond that.
And then there was another circle where those who were a part of the Jewish faith could go and worship.
And then there was the priest who would lead the worship.
And then behind the priest, there was this huge curtain.
And behind the curtain was where God was supposed to live in that holy temple.
and no one but the priest could ever go through that curtain except for once a year where they went and made an offering of sin atonement to God.
And there would always be a holding of your breath because nobody knew if the priest would come back out because to be in the presence of God was something that was overwhelming.
But if you remember the story of the crucifixion of Jesus, as Jesus died, there was an earthquake.
And in that temple, that huge curtain was torn down.
And in that incredible miraculous act, God made a statement to us.
The church is not a place.
God's presence cannot be curated.
God's greatest desire is the same desire that he had when he created us.
That is to walk with us and talk with us and live with us and live in us.
To create a sacred community that was his blessed creation.
And in Jesus, He came to send us the message that not even death is going to keep Him from building His church, from being in community with us, from inviting us to be in community with Him.
And so what church truly is is not a facility.
Facilities are incredible.
This is a place where supposedly we hope the work of the kingdom takes place.
It is bricks and mortar, but it is not God's house.
It is the place where we gather and invite God to come join us.
It is a place where we come together to remember the covenant we have made together as the body of Christ to live in the world as Jesus did.
We keep this building to serve, to glorify, to gather, but it is not the church we are.
So what does the church look like?
Well,
How many of you have joined this church?
That's not that I'm trying to smoke you out or anything, but let me just, how many of you joined?
Do you remember when you joined, did you make some vows?
You see, the truth is what the church is, is a covenantal relationship.
I went to the Board of Discipleships website and you can print out your membership vows in gold, in silver,
I print them out in red today for Valentine's Day.
I want you to listen to the covenant you make when you become a part of our church.
To renounce the spiritual forces of wickedness and reject the evil of this world and repent of our sins.
Thy kingdom come.
To accept the freedom and power of God.
To resist evil injustice and oppression.
to live like Christ lived, to confess Jesus Christ as Savior and put our whole trust in His grace and to serve Him as our Lord, to be about the work of God, to remain faithful members of Christ's Holy Church and to serve as Christ's representative in the world, to be loyal to Christ,
and to do all in our power to strengthen the ministry.
To be faithful, this is the part that most people remember, to be faithful participants in its ministries by what our prayers, our presence, our gifts, our service, and our witness.
And then finally, to receive and profess the Christian faith as contained in the scriptures of both the old and new testament.
Do you see what that is?
It is a framework for a culture and a way of life.
This is heaven culture, not world culture.
This is Jesus' way, not the world's way.
And to be a part of the church is to make a covenant relationship that says, God, I have decided,
to be your child, as you created me to be, to walk with you, to talk with you, to live for you, to serve you, just like Jesus did.
And in doing that, I invite you into my life fully to bring direction, but not only direction to my life, to bring me together in a countable community that we can create outposts of heaven all over this world.
that people can look at this building when we gather in it and say, I think God goes to church there.
I think God's spirit is present there.
In my ministry, I've had a chance to be in places that were sacred places, places where I know God's Holy Spirit was and where the church was truly, indeed, present.
Whenever I left here and went to the conference office, one of the things that we began to emphasize was homeless ministry.
There at the Capitol, there were so many homeless people.
And so at annual conference, I decided to bring somebody in to speak about it.
He lived in Philadelphia, part of a ministry called Mission Year.
And so I decided to go vet that.
So I went to Philadelphia and got there thinking I was just going to speak to Chris Larr, who was the person who was coming, who was a part of Mission Year.
And Chris said, oh, you just, you know, I forgot to tell you, I've got a little plan for you.
I was like, yeah, what's that plan?
He said, you know, we've got a crew in that's a new crew that's coming to spend a year in Mission here in Philadelphia with the homeless people.
And their initiation is what we call the pulpers ride a passage, which means
In the morning, you're going to get up after tonight.
We go to a thrift shop and you pick five pieces of clothes.
And we're going to take you into Philadelphia and drop you in Love Park.
And you're going to be there as a homeless person for the next 12 hours.
And we're going to give you a little checklist.
You're going to have to dumpster dive.
You're going to have to go to homeless shelters.
You're going to have to not stay inside more than 15 minutes.
And I'm like, you know, Chris, I just came to talk to you about coming to annual conference.
He said, nah, you got this.
So I did.
We went that night and we went to the thrift shop.
I picked out five pieces of clothes and that had to include your underwear.
And so I got some jeans, got my underwear, got some socks.
That's three pieces right there.
And so I thought, well, you know, I'm probably going to need a hat.
So I got a toboggan because it was October in Philadelphia.
And then I was like, hmm, and I just saw this cool t-shirt.
And I was drawn to it, so I got the t-shirt, not thinking that it was 42 degrees outside, and then I was gonna be outside the rest of the day.
So that next morning, they gave us our peanut butter and jelly sandwich in the church, and they gave us a token.
We took the subway into Love Park, and the first thing we had to do was beg.
It was 45 minutes of humiliation.
As we went down the checklist, and as we were making our way, we went to one of the parks where the veterans was, and this guy
We walked upon these two veterans that were on a bench, Quinn and Tony.
And as soon as we walked up, they looked at us and said, y'all are not homeless.
What are y'all doing here?
We explained it to them, and Quinn, who was kind of the instigator, said, oh, I can't let y'all wander around Philadelphia by yourselves.
We're going to protect you.
So come on, I'll give you a tour of Philly, and we'll take you to all the best places for homeless people to eat.
Who knew, you know?
It's like,
And so they said, well, the Korean truck over by the river, they have the best hot food and so forth.
But you don't have a coat, man.
None of y'all have a coat.
We're going to go to the church of the Red Door, which got my curiosity up.
But he let us through, took us first through the mall, which by the way, if you're ever homeless and it was raining and you're wet, if you go into the outer lobby of a mall, there is the return air for their conditioner system.
You can stand over that and it will dry you out in about five minutes.
After we had finished there, he took us to the church of the Red Door.
And sure enough, there was the Red Door.
That's really all I remember about it.
What I remember most is when we walked in, there was a woman that met us and said, oh, babies, y'all, come in.
Y'all must be freezing.
We got to get you some coats.
Go sit over there and get you some snacks.
And as we looked around the room, they were indeed a safe place for lots of homeless people and nestled throughout the room were volunteers and
church staff who were talking to the people that were there who were encouraging them, who were kind of counseling with them.
And so this lady disappeared and went down into the basement of the church and came out.
There were four of us.
They didn't send us out by ourselves.
And so they, she came back with three coats.
And she gave the two young women that were with us, their coats and the other young man.
And she looked at me and she said,
Mr.
I couldn't find a coat in our coat cloth.
And then she said, well, this is not right.
Come with me.
And so she took me down two steps of two flights of steps all the way down into the basement below the basement.
It was dark and she goes into this closet and she just starts praying out loud.
Dear Jesus, we need a coat.
Dear Jesus, please let there be a coat in this place that fits this man.
Dear Jen, she walked down and said, thank you, Lord.
And she had this beautiful herringbone peak coat.
And she said, God is good.
I took the coat, went back up, our 15 minutes was up, and so we went back on the street.
The long and the short of it was I felt more at church there than I've just about ever felt in my life.
Why?
Not because of an incredible praise team, which we have, not because of a beautiful facility, but because regardless of who I was, I was loved.
We got time for the bus to pick us up.
Quinn and Tony were sitting there waiting with us because they knew what we'd been doing.
And Tony, who was a disabled vet, lifted up his backpack, which I'd been helping him carry and unzipped it and said, look, we can't have you come to the city of brotherly love and leave empty handed.
And he pulled out of the bag a brand new Eagles playoff t-shirt.
And he said, next time you come, bring more clothes.
And he handed me the t-shirt.
I have it along with that toboggan.
And every once in a while, I just wear it to remind me of what church feels like.
You see, church is not a building.
It's not a set of beliefs, even though we have them.
It is a covenantal relationship with the God who made us.
And the beautiful miracle of it is as we live into that, God weaves us together into a community of faith that loves and cares and reaches out for each other.
There are a lot of ways to look at it.
One of my favorite writers is Erwin McManus.
He's made, so he's seasoned, but he's written a bunch of books.
And one of my favorite books he wrote is called The Barbarian Way, The Barbarian Way.
And he talks about the fact that being a Christian automatically puts us counterculture to the world we live in.
And people don't understand why we do things the way we do.
And he was going to do a speech on that with his daughter, who is just brilliant.
And he said, maybe I'm trying to figure out a new way
of saying how we as Christians live different than the world.
And she said, dad, you've been doing this a long time.
This should really be easy.
She said, I put it in two sentences.
Jesus teaches us to love to live and to live to love.
It sounds kind of like Jesus is three, two commandments.
Love God, love neighbor, love self.
The church is people who live to love.
And the reason that I put this in here is because so many people think that when you become a member of a church, you give up all fun.
You ever read the gospels?
How many times do we find Jesus at a party?
How many times do we find Jesus talking about a banquet and a celebration and the kingdom of God is like a party?
to be a part of the church is learned to live into the life that Jesus promised.
I promise that I came to give you life and give it more abundantly.
And so God gives us a gift of life, but then He gives us the wonder of the gift of love.
The church should be the most loving community in creation.
And that love is born.
out of God's love for us and what is done inside of us.
In second chapter of Acts, we have this beautiful snapshot of what the church looks like whenever it's there.
It's after Peter is preached, there's thousands of people who've been baptized, they're learning how to be the kingdom on earth together.
And in that second chapter, beginning in the 42nd verse, we see these words.
And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers.
All came upon everyone because many signs, wonders and signs were being done by the apostles.
All who believed were together and had all things in common.
Doesn't sound like the world right now.
They would sell their possessions and goods and distribute the proceeds to all as any had need.
Day by day, as they spent much time together in the temple, they broke bread at home, ate their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having the goodwill of all the people.
And day by day, the Lord added to their number those who were being saved.
That is church.
Eating together.
sharing together, loving each other, and being such a present salt and light in the world that people who see us want to be us, want to be a part, want to learn to live like that.
And when we begin to live like that,
then God wants to go to church there.
Because that's the snapshot of how we live.
And I want to close with the snapshot of how God wants to see the world.
You've heard it many of you.
It's in Revelation 21 chapter.
This is God's picture of church.
Then we saw a new heaven and a new earth and the first heaven and the first earth had passed away and the sea was no more.
And I saw a holy city, a new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven that God has prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, see, the home of God is among mortals.
He will dwell with them and they will be his people and God himself will be with them.
and he'll wipe away every tear from their eyes.
This will be no more.
Morning and crying and pain will be no more, for the first things have passed away.
And the one who was seated on the throne said, see, I'm making all things new.
He also said, write this for these words are trustworthy and true.
The God who made us
wants to live in us and among us.
And every time we let that happen in our life, and every time we begin to live together as it happens, as we answer our calls, as we live into our talents, as we seek to serve God in the places He calls us to, then we become more and more like that kingdom that is to come.
In this day,
The world needs us so much.
In this day, people are looking for a place to live and be loved.
In this day, we're called to be that.
And if you've made the covenant to be a part of this church,
then I invite you to recommit to that covenant, that when it comes time for us to worship, we can say, hey, God goes to church here.
Let us pray.